After obtaining the fastqc.html files for 12 datasets—that is, 2 paired-end datasets from each of 6 RNA-seq experiments—and submitting Lab Assignment #2, these html files were pulled onto a local computer by cloning the GitHub repository onto it.

Upon viewing the FastQC reports for each of the 12 datasets, I noticed some interesting characteristics. FastQC flagged “Per base sequence content” with a red “X”; further inspection showed that the sequence content for each dataset is questionable for the first ~13 bases, but afterwards seems trustworthy, as is typical for Sanger-type sequencing. It also flagged “Per sequence GC content” with a red “X”, but this flag proves to be unimportant, as the GC content graph for each dataset displays the bimodal GC distribution that is expected from a grass such as B. distachyon. 

Even more interesting is the fact that “Per base sequence quality” for each dataset is marked with a green check mark, and that a phred score of at least 33 is achieved at each base on average. Also, “Adapter Content” is marked with a green check mark; the chart for each dataset shows a 0% adapter sequence content. I would not normally assume either of these to be the case, as I thought SRA accessions contained raw data. However, the complete absence of adapter content and the consistently high quality of the sequences possibly suggests that these reads have already been trimmed, and that the SRA files I downloaded from NCBI contained quality-checked and trimmed data.

This being the case, I wrote a shell script using trimmomatic on paired-end reads that would trim off the correct adapters (TrueSeq3-PE.fa), if in fact they were still present in the RNA-seq datasets, but with minimal other parameters. The script utilized a for loop to first trim each paired-end read set, then immediately run fastqc on the correctly paired/trimmed data. These 12 fastq.gz files were moved into a directory called “lab_assignment_3”, along with my job script called “attempt_trimmomatic_fastqc.sh” and this “methods.txt” file.

The “lab_assignment_3” directory was then pushed to GitHub.
